The website is tested using some test tools; Jmeter is one of them. This documentation is intended as a guide that describe how to create Jmeter test for the project. One way to create a test case is by modifying existing JMeter tests location under the [https://code.google.com/p/portfolio-recipe/source/browse/trunk/RecipeProject/src/test/resources/jmeter/ jmeter folder]. 

One of this test is a performance test named [https://code.google.com/p/portfolio-recipe/source/browse/trunk/RecipeProject/src/test/resources/jmeter/400Users.jmx 400Users].

=PERFORMANCE TEST=

The performance test is intended to collect data about the response time of the home page of the website. This is achieved by performing a load Testing that puts the home page to a work level that could push the home page to its limit. The work level is set to 400 users accessing the home page concurrently.

To do this, a jmeter with the following components are created:

  * A Thread Group that records 400 users accessing the home  page. The ramp up period is 400 seconds, which means that each user will open the home page every 1 second. The loop is set to 50, which means that the test is repeated 50 times per user.
 
  * An HTTP Request that records a URL and a port of the home page.

  * A Simple Controller that records the steps that each user perform in the test. The controller defined in this test records two steps: opening the home page, and opening the first recipe in the home page.

  * An aggregate report listener that records the average and median response time of the homepage.

=RECORDING A TEST=

The above performance test was develop by recording steps performed by me in Firefox. These steps are required to record a test:

  # Add an HTTP Proxy Component under a workbench. The HTTP Proxy Component allows JMeter to watch and record actions while users browse web application with standard browsers. This proxy is setup to listen to port number 90. This number should be set into your browser proxy setting. This filter: ".*\.(jpg|png|gif)" is added with the intention to ignore any images from being recorded by the HTTP Proxy Component.

  # Add a simple controller as a child component of the HTTP Proxy Component.

Once these component have been setup, we can start recording by clicking on the start button of the HTTP Proxy Component screen. Once the proxy server has been started, go to your browser and perform the dsired test steps. JMeter will record these steps as child components of the simple controller. Click the stop button to stop recording.